---
cover: /blog/how_to_build_belief.webp
date: 2024-01-13
title: How to build your belief?
description: Are you tired of hearing people saying “I can’t do it” all the time?
layout: article
---

Are you tired of hearing people saying “I can’t do it” all the time? **Do you feel pity for the people with potential around you because they have so much potential, but they still don’t even give something their full shot saying they can’t do it?** 

Do you ever just want to shake them up, get them awake about their skills, and make them believe they can actually do it. **Isn’t it just annoying when they don’t believe themselves?** Don’t you just feel irritated about why they are not listening to you?

**Do you ever find yourself saying, “I can’t do it”?** Do you ever find yourself calming yourself by saying, **“My case is different, I am busy, or I don’t have enough time,…” something along these lines?** Do your friends or family ever tell you that you actually can do it, and they see tremendous potential in you? 

What if I say **your case is actually not so different** as you might think. What if I say **you are exactly like those around you**, and in such cases, you are acting exactly like them, **not believing in yourself.** 

### **Are you still reading?**

### **Congrats, you made it through all the obnoxious questions.** 

Yeah, I promise there will be no bore questions hereafter. Now I am not saying the case can never be different. It can be for some people with genuine reasons but hear me out, GENUINE REASON. **A genuine reason, in this case, will be the one you can’t do anything about, something that is not in your hands.** If you have read this far, it means you want to find the answer to the above questions, or maybe you are just checking my philosophy. **Well, hear me out, okay.**

The biggest problem that we have in today’s generation is digital devices.<br/>(＾▽＾)<br/> **Naah, just kidding.** I am not your mom; **digital devices are a boon if you know how to use them**. That’s how you are reading this blog right now. So, without wasting any further time, let’s get to our topic:

### **How to build your belief**

From childhood, we are told to say **affirmations to make us believe in ourselves.** But has any of that worked out for you or anyone you know? In my case, it didn’t. **It never does**, is what I know of it. There is a difference between **brute-forcing an idea in your brain** and **truly believing something.** Now the question is, **“How to build your Belief?”** (I broke my promise, Sorry.) Well, that’s easy, right? **You already know how to believe in something or someone.** You might not acknowledge it, but **you know how to do it by heart.** 

### There is a straightforward rule:

### **“Belief is built by doings.”**

You **don’t believe someone** by listening to them **blabbering about their work.** You don’t **believe something** by just **reading an advertisement about it.** You genuinely believe in something **when you see it for yourself**, **when you experience it**, **when you see it accomplish what it claimed.** 

**Why don’t you apply this rule to yourself?** ( Again, with the questions, aahh, Sorry)

You can **keep building your belief** in yourself by **doing tasks that seemed impossible at the time**. You will have to **push yourself initially**. It will be **hard at first**, just like a **workout.** You would want to give up on every second of it. But you just have to power through it once. When you get caught up in the cycle of believing yourself, it will be **too excellent of a feeling to stop.** You will keep **building your belief by doing more and more challenging tasks**, and you will be **improving exponentially**. You will be able to reach the heights you never thought. You will **get to your goals in no time and will now have new goals to go to.** This constant race with oneself and the **feeling of winning from the “previous you” is one of its kind.** 

**Congrats, you read it till here.** You weren’t lying about **your desire to improve yourself.** 

**Do you know why I am saying all this to you(the one who made it this far in the blog)?** 

Because I know you have the potential, **I know you CAN DO IT. I genuinely believe in you.** You read the whole blog because you had those questions in mind.

>  **“To ask the right question is already half the solution of the problem.”**
> 
> **\-G.G.Jung**

If you directly jumped here at the conclusion. It’s okay; just go back and read the blog. **You wanted to know the answer but were too lazy to read the entire blog.** It’s fine, you know, most people don’t understand this, but **it’s okay to be lazy.** You just need to find a convenient way to complete your task. **It is the completion of the task that is essential because that’s what matters in the end.** 

**Now, don’t keep repeating, ” I can do it, I can do it.”** 

**Just go and do it.**

**Your belief will build automatically.** 
